We start working with sounds. UE supports several audio formats: wav, flac, ogg and some others.
We will use wav format with you. I added all shooter game sounds to our project.
We will not use all of them. Sound files are just as easy to add as images.
We just drag and drop them into the content browser.
This tutorial will be pretty simple. We'll start with the sounds of the interface. Let's add sounds for hovering and clicking on buttons.
Let's open the weapon folder, rifle sounds.
When we add a sound file to the UE, it converts it to an internal format. It is called sound wave.
This is one of the basic sound assets. On hovering, the play icon appears and we can play it right away.
The sound of a rifle played. If we open the soundwave asset, we can see various sound settings in it.
It starts from compression, ending with volume, pitch adjustment and others.
Go to the UI sounds directory, the wav folder. These sound assets are interface sounds.
When clicking on the interface buttons, we will use the toggle sound, and on hover, the hover sound.
Let's right click in the content browser. Let's go to the sounds category.
We can see that there are quite a few different assets in the UE that are related to sounds.
The UE audio module is powerful enough. We'll be using some of these assets.
Let's start with an asset called SoundQue. This asset has its own blueprint editor.
We can combine different sounds, adjust sound parameters dynamically.
Roughly speaking, influence the final audio result in various ways.
We call the first SoundQue ButtonHovered. Copy this asset and call the second SoundQue ButtonPresssed.
Opening the asset, this is how the SoundQue blueprint editor looks like. Let's drag the UI_Hovered asset into the given blueprint.
We drop it on the graph, connect the pins. Above, on the left, there is a play button.
The SOundQue editor has various nodes to control and customize the sound. For example, we can add a delay node
that triggers a sound with a delay. Let's set the upper and lower bounds for delay - 2 seconds.
Click on play.
That is, now the sound is played with a delay of 2 seconds. In SoundQue, we can add as many sounds as we like.
Let's drag and drop any of the UI sounds. We can randomly play one of these sounds.
Select the random node, connect the pins and press the play button several times.
In fact, with this editor, we can program the behavior of the sound.
This SoundQue will play only one sound, so remove unnecessary nodes.
And also open SoundQue Pressed. Drag the sound wave by clicking on the button.
We connect the pins. We have created two Sound Queues. Let's see how we can play these sounds in the widget.
Let's start with a menu widget. You can hide the ShowImage. Click on the eye.
And let's start with the start game button. The button details panel has two properties called
pressed sound and hovered sound. We can see that we can select both SoundQue and SoundWave.
We don't need to program anything for the interface - the sounds will be played automatically.
We just need to indicate them. Let's do the same for the quick button.
For the LevelItem button.
Next, go to the GameOver widget.
We also specify sounds for the GoToMenu widget button.
And the last widget is GamePause. Specify sounds for the Continue button.
We have added sounds to all buttons on the interface.
Let's see if this works in the game. We launch our project.
Guidance works.
And the sound of pressing the button also works.
Let's create our own directory in the content browser for sounds.
Let's call it sounds.
Drag our SoundQue to this directory.
And also create another directory. Let's call it UI.
Drag SoundQue to this directory. This concludes the current lesson.